# THE UNIVERSITY OF HONG KONG
## FACULTY OF ENGINEERING
### DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE

**COMP7901 Legal Protection of Digital Property**

**(NOT FOR CIRCULATION)**

**Date:** 13 May 2023  
**Time:** 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm

*This is an open-book examination. You may reference any written or printed materials during the examination.*

**Answer ALL questions.** You should write SHORT AND SUCCINCT answers to each question in the space provided on the examination paper. If additional answer sheets are used, attach them to the examination paper for them to be marked.

**Unless otherwise stated, all persons, websites or companies referred to in the questions are domiciled, situated or incorporated in HONG KONG.**

**Write your University Number in the space below and at the upper right hand corner of each odd-numbered page.**

**THIS PAPER HAS A TOTAL OF 90 MARKS.**

---

**UNIVERSITY NUMBER:** ______________

| MARKS            |       |
|------------------|-------|
| QUESTION 1       |       |
| QUESTION 2       |       |
| QUESTION 3       |       |
| **TOTAL**        |       |

---

**P.1 of 18**

> For each question below, if you need to make assumptions about the facts, make the **MOST REASONABLE** and the **MINIMAL** number of assumptions, and state clearly what they are.

---

## QUESTION 1 (30 Marks)

Nick, a professor of surgery at Pokfulam University (PU), has come up with a new and ingenious method ("the Method") for heart surgery which minimises the risks of fatal incidents on the operating table and avoids most of the complications that often occurred after operation. To facilitate operations based on the Method, Nick has also designed a new and special device ("the Device") to be used by the surgeon during heart operation surgery. Nick has just filed a standard patent application ("the Application") in Hong Kong with a process claim for the Method and a product claim for the Device.

**(a) Are Nick's claims in the Application excluded from patentability under the Patents Ordinance? Explain. (10 marks)**

**P.2 of 18**

---

**University Number:** ______________

**P.3 of 18**

**(b) Regardless of your answer to (a) above, assume that the Application succeeds eventually and a standard patent is granted. Nick's employment contract with PU states that his main duties are teaching and conducting research in brain surgery, and mentions nothing about patents. Who is entitled to the standard patent? Explain. (10 Marks)**

**P.4 of 18**

---

**University Number:** ______________

**(c) The Device in Nick's Application consists of 3 essential components, referred to as C1, C2 and C3. Prior to the Application, both C1 and C2 had already been used in a similar device ("Device0") designed for surgeons to perform brain operations. While the Application was still being processed, an article was published in a surgery journal showing that C3 was not needed for the Device. Would this new finding affect Nick's Application (and if so, how)? Explain. (10 Marks)**

**P.5 of 18**

---

**P.6 of 18**

---

**University Number:** ______________

## QUESTION 2 (30 Marks)

"MoneyHeist" is a computer game developed by HKGames Limited. MoneyHeist's object code is placed on HKGames' website for free download on condition that the game is used for private and domestic purposes. The game features a team of robbers inside a central bank, each with a different skill. The player is required to coordinate the team to prevent the police from entering the bank while money is being printed. The player wins the game when the money printed is successfully delivered to a destination outside the bank. A score will then be added to the player's account based on the number of surviving robbers and the sum of money delivered to the destination.

David is a fan of MoneyHeist. Purely out of curiosity, he has decompiled MoneyHeist's object code to study the resultant assembly code. After much trial and error, he was able to locate the module of object code responsible for the robbers' skills and replace it with a completely new module of object code generated by himself. The result was a team of robbers with more sophisticated skills rendering the game much more exciting. David named this enhanced game "MoneyChase". A month later, David decided to share MoneyChase with others by placing its object code on his website for free download. To date, more than 5,000 users have downloaded MoneyChase.

**(a) Does David have any civil liabilities under the Copyright Ordinance? What about criminal liabilities? Explain. (12 Marks)**

**P.7 of 18**

---

**P.8 of 18**

---

**University Number:** ______________

**P.9 of 18**

**(b) Edward, a free-lance programmer, downloaded MoneyHeist's object code and added a significant part of it to another game developed by him, naming the resultant game "MoneyDaze". He then sent MoneyDaze's object code to a factory in Thailand instructing it to make mass production of CD copies of the object code and courier the CDs back to him. He received the CDs last month and has since sold them all to various computer game retailers in Hong Kong. Does he have any civil liabilities under the Copyright Ordinance? What about criminal liabilities? Explain. (18 Marks)**

**P.10 of 18**

---

**University Number:** ______________

**P.11 of 18**

---

**P.12 of 18**

---

**University Number:** ______________

## QUESTION 3 (30 Marks)

**(a) Linda, who obtained a PhD degree from Bonham University (BU) 5 years ago, was recently stripped of the degree by BU on the ground that her PhD thesis has plagiarised an earlier thesis kept in the library of a university in the US. The decision was made a week ago after a confidential hearing before BU's special committee on academic matters ("the Committee"). Linda attended the hearing and, after answering questions raised by members of the Committee, was requested to leave the room while the Committee deliberated on their decision. The entire hearing was audio recorded. BU's regulations allow a student to appeal against the decision of the Committee. Linda has just asked BU for a copy of the audio recording. Must BU comply under the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, and if so, how? Explain. (15 Marks)**

**P.13 of 18**

---

**P.14 of 18**

---

**University Number:** ______________

**P.15 of 18**

**(b) Keith, the principal of a conservative secondary school, has undergone a divorce proceeding with his wife, Maggie. By an order of the court, Keith was to move out of the matrimonial home before a certain date but he has failed to do so. Furious that Keith has not complied with the court order, Maggie has posted a notice outside their matrimonial home demanding Keith to move out. The notice contains information relating to the divorce proceeding and mentioning Keith's adultery as the ground of divorce. The notice has been seen by many residents in the neighbourhood, including some students at Keith's school. Can Keith take any action against Maggie under the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance? Does Maggie have any defence? Explain. (15 Marks)**

**P.16 of 18**

---

**University Number:** ______________

**P.17 of 18**

---

## *** END OF PAPER ***

**P.18 of 18**